
# CDSC WG2 (Power Data) Meeting 2022-10-18

## Agenda

* Update on Contributor License Agreement (CLA)
* Update on new website and alignment with WG1
* Update on consolidation of proposals into v0.0.1 draft
* Update on outreach to MISO and ENTSO-E for proposals review.


## Attendees

* Jeff Burka (Singularity)
* Henry Richardson (WattTime)
* Pierre Segonne (Electricity Maps) (Maintainer)

## Minutes

* Update on Contributor License Agreement (CLA)
  * Contributions on the repository are on hold until the CLA is signed.
  * The LF Energy board has approved the CLA. Next week maintainers of the different working groups will be introduced to the new CLA process.
  * Pierre will provide updates on what that means in practice for contributors.

* Update on new website and alignment with WG1
  *  Last week, Pierre met with Daniel, the maintainer of the working group 1 focusing on customer data to discuss alignment of the two working groups.
  *  It was decided to align communication channels. The working group 2 will notably also use a static website to facilitate communication about its work.
  *  Pierre has copied the website of WG1 and is in the process of publishing it on https://powersystemsdata.carbondataspec.org/

* Update on consolidation of proposals into v0.0.1 draft
  * Both proposals have been merged into the draft v0.0.1 branch.
  * They replicate the content of the spreadsheets that were used to collect feedback from the community.
  * [Topology](https://github.com/carbon-data-specification/Power-Systems-Data/blob/draft-0.0.1/topology.md)
  * [Data Types](https://github.com/carbon-data-specification/Power-Systems-Data/blob/draft-0.0.1/datatypes.md)


* Update on outreach to MISO and ENTSO-E for proposals review.
  * MISO has not been responsive. They are going through internal reorganisation that is blocking.
  * ENTSO-E has been responsive. They have reviewed the proposal and Pierre has been able to present the working group to their CIM-EG meeting (seemed like it regrouped ENTSO-E + TSOs). ENTSO-E will share soon that review and Pierre will continue nurturing the relationship with them.

## Action items

* Contributor License Agreement (CLA)
  * Pierre will keep the working group posted on the recent developments

* New website
  * Jeff & Henry will add content regarding background for what the working group is doing and use cases.

* Consolidation of proposals into v0.0.1 draft
  * The topology proposal and the data types proposal have been merged into the draft 0.0.1. The draft will be merged on master once the CLA has been signed.

* Update on outreach to MISO and ENTSO-E for proposals review.
    * Jeff is getting in contact with someone from PJM. He will also try to find contacts within the EIA (and potentially CAISO).
    * Pierre will continue the collaboration with ENTSO-E and gather the review they have done on the proposals.
    * Pierre will try identifying new contacts within European TSOs.

