
# CDSC WG2 (Power Data) Meeting 2022-10-04

## Agenda

* GitHub clean slate.
  * Differentiating between the draft v0.0.1 and proposal to change repo organisation.
  * Merge the draft v0.0.1 into the main branch.
  * Should we make the README more descriptive? And remind the raison d'Ãªtre of the WG?
  * Overview of closed issues.
  * New labels to triage between workstreams.

* Update on outreach to MISO and ENTSO-E for proposals review.


## Attendees

* Hallie Cramer (Google)
* Jeff Burka (Singularity)
* Natalie Winters (MISO)
* Pierre Segonne (Electricity Maps) (Maintainer)

## Minutes

* Started with updates from Natalie (MISO)
  * Details about what are the inner pieces that could slow down the review process on their side
    * Hierarchy
    * Data confidentiality
    * Pressure around the end of the year
  * On the other end, carbon accounting use cases is pushing ISOs to share more emission data
    * CISO and PJM are good examples of ISOs that already share emission data
  * Typical methodology for doing that for ISOs:
    * They know generation
    * They can use typical emission factors for each fuel type
    * They must guestimate heat rates for each fuel type / get it from an external source (e.g. the producers themselves - data might be sensitive, or e.g. EPA through eGrid)
  * Overall, MISO is still happy to collaborate, especially as they are undergoing a rationalisation of their information systems and want to push their data sharing to a single API.

* Reminder from Jeff that the goal of the WG is to limit the scope of the data types to inputs to the emission computation methodologies, which are fact that everybody can agree on. The goal is not to define the methodology itself.

* Looked at few examples of other ISO/TSOs that share openly data, agreed to share examples.

* Update from ENTSO-E, first contact made
  * Seems like they don't have much capacity for helping, and want some materials to share with their members
  * Materials and overview sent to them, awaiting for their feedback

* Discussed generating more interest / driving more involvment within the WG
  * The responsability is shared between the WG members and the steering group
  * WG members are encouraged to reach out to their own networks to get more people involved
  * Steering group should help with sourcing new members. A collection of stakeholders can be found [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1me4GqVs6Gd4liFE1jlHBbemOW0mXFBnWZEj8AL-Hi0U/edit?resourcekey=0-zUPNsvr3Wr8xkI0UDktQKg#gid=0)

* Quick discussion around the state of GitHub
  * Waiting for contributor license agreement (CLA) for accepting new contributions
  * Meanwhile, we can reconsolidate the proposals developed on spreadsheet into the v0.0.1 draft

## Action items

(Pierre)
* Helping Natalie get buy-in from MISO:
  * Follow-up with a quick mail explaining what we need and what are the documents to review
  * Find examples of system operators that already publish some of that data to include in that mail as inspiration
* GitHub maintaining
  * Add all information from the spreadsheets to GitHub on the v0.0.1 branch

(Natalie)
* Start sharing relevant information in the review process
  * Confidentiality documents
* Help with extending the outreach to other ISOs
  * See if it's possible to share contacts within other ISOs
  * Talk about the WG work in the council of ISOs
